- The Legend of the Cravat:
	
Around the 17th century, in mid-Eastern Europe, a nation that at the time contained Slavic battle warriors, known for their loyalty and fierceness. 
Considered the best light cavalry in Europe, the Croats were proud of their reputation as excellent warriors. So, as they rode, they acquired a neat and carefully decorated uniform. These necklaces were part of the Croatian military equipment and a kind of recognition because at that time there were no military uniforms.
They were known for making silk fabrics because silk was excellent for tieing a wound so one wouldn't bleed out. Because they had to have their hands free for riding horses and wielding weapons, they tied red cravats around their necks.
In 1646, the Croatian ban leads them to the French capital to make some arrangements with French King Louis XIV. Louis XIV liked this „Croat style“ a lot, and became the fashion standard of all french nobles.
In other versions of the same legend, Croatian maidens would give a silken fabric to their beloved, in order to remember them and as a token of good luck.


- World Tie Day:

Today a tie is a part of the most important cultural heritage that’s why the institution Academia Cravatica proudly promotes the origin of the tie.
They are the organizer of the only and first European festival dedicated to the phenomenon of neckties.
They decided, on September 18th, 2003 (the national cravat day), to show their love for it by making the biggest tie in the Guinness World Record.
They tied up around the Pula's Arena, the best-preserved Roman amphitheater in the world, with a giant red tie symbolizing the connection between the past and the future, antiquity and modern civilization, and the fact that tie as a part of not only Croatian but also as global cultural heritage. 
The tie took 450,75 kg of fabric and 120 km of string. 


- The Cravat of Today:

Today’s the tie is a universal symbol of politeness and cultivation and an unavoidable fashion accessory and remained to this day.
Until the beginning of the 19th century, ties were white but the English introduced colorful ones, which made them an indicator of one's taste.
Then the American textile manufacturer Jesse Langsdorf made a revolutionary step forward by industrializing the production.
But the most famous and well-known Croatian cravat brand is „Croata“, which specialized in historical tradition by following the fact that this clothing piece is a part of national identity. Their ties are made from only the most flawless silk and the highest top quality, with modern motives, designed by Croatian stylists.
But although there are as many as 85 theoretical possibilities of tying a tie knot, and only a dozen knots correspond to the usual notions of symmetry and balance, the most famous is the simple and double “Windsor knot" affirmed by the Duke of Windsor.
Most important, the tie is just a story about love indeed fiancées are giving their fiancés’ scarves as a token of mutual fidelity, especially in crucial moments of their lives.
